# AdultCensusIncome
ML algorithm to predict income based on census data

After receiving my Ph.D. in biomedical engineering from Duke University in November 2020, I had brain surgery to remove a tumor in my brainstem that left me unable to work for a couple months to recover.  I took advantage of this down time to reflect on my passions and determined that a career in data science strongly appealed to me rather than the wet lab research I performed in graduate school.  As a result, I have been teaching myself the field of data science day-in and day-out to foster a skillset in data wrangling, machine learning, data visualization, statistics, etc.  It has thus far been a very rewarding and exciting time in my life while I still work to regain some of the lost function in my nervous system, primarily reduced function of the left side of my body.

This is my first project after about a month of immersive self-teaching the various aspects of data science through online courses, texbooks, networking with Duke alumni data scientists, etc.  I downloaded data from the 1994 Census that was extracted by Ronny Kohavi and Barry Becker.  The dataset can be found at https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/adult-census-income.  There are numerous features that can be used to predict whether a person has an income of more/less than $50,000.

To fix missing data, I use a combination of imputing values and removing unnecessary rows/columns.  I also reduce the feature space by combining similar categories to facilitate a simpler, potentially more accurate model.  To perform a supervised learning classification, I explore both a K-nearest neighbors algorithm and support vector machines with a radial basis function.  Using a grid search with cross-validation, I optimized a support vector machine algorithm with high precision and recall to effectively predict whether a person made more/less than $50,000 based on available data from the 1994 Census.
